---
url: https://docs.endorlabs.com/ai/droidgpt/
title: DroidGPT | Endor Labs Docs
downloaded: 2026-02-03 00:50:11
---

DroidGPT | Endor Labs Docs



* Type to search...

[Print entire section](/ai/droidgpt/_print.html)



# DroidGPT

DroidGPT derives data from third-party Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools and coordinates it with Endor Labs’ proprietary risk data to help you to quickly and easily research open source software packages.

1. Select **Discover** > **Droid GPT** from the left sidebar.
2. Choose an **Ecosystem**.
3. Type your questions in the search bar and click **Ask DroidGPT**.

   Here are a few examples:

   * What are the best logging packages for Java?
   * What AI packages have most permissive license?
   * Which Go packages have the least known vulnerabilities?
   * What are a few packages similar to log4j?

You’ll receive instant answers. All results include risk scores revealing the quality, popularity, trustworthiness, and security of each package.

## Enable DroidGPT error logging

Endor Labs integrates with third-party Artificial Intelligence (AI) tools to help you troubleshoot errors while performing software composition analysis, dependency resolution, or generating call graphs during an endorctl scan.

In the event of an error, DroidGPT generates explanations and actionable advice for how to resolve the error on the given host system. These suggestions are displayed as part of the error log messages on the command line and can help you understand why build errors occurred during the scan process and how to resolve them.

**Important**

Recommendations generated are meant solely for informational purposes. Before implementing these suggestions, it is strongly advised to thoroughly verify and assess them to ensure their accuracy and suitability for your specific circumstances and work environments.

Use the `ENDOR_SCAN_DROID_GPT` environment variable or the `--droid-gpt` option to enable DroidGPT error logging on your system.

* Enable error logging while performing a scan.

```
endorctl scan --droid-gpt
```

* Enable error logging while checking the system specifications required for performing a scan.

```
endorctl host-check --droid-gpt
```

### DroidGPT error logging example

Here is an example of the recommendations generated by DroidGPT while scanning a Ruby repository where the manifest file is not correctly configured.

**Note**

Use the following AI-generated advice at your own risk

```
DroidGPT suggests the following as a possible remediation:
1. The error message indicates that there is a problem parsing the Gemfile, which is preventing the dependency tree from being generated.
2. Specifically, the error message states that there are no gemspecs at the specified location, which is causing Bundler to fail.
3. To fix this issue, you should check that the Gemfile is correctly configured and that all necessary gemspecs are present.
4. Additionally, you may want to try running `bundle install` to ensure that all dependencies are properly installed.
5. Please note that this advice is generated by an AI and there may be additional factors at play that are not captured in the error message. As such, there is no guarantee that these steps will resolve the issue, and you should proceed with caution.
```

## Feedback

Was this page helpful?

Yes
No

Thanks for the feedback. Write to us at support@endor.ai to tell us more.

Thanks for the feedback. Write to us at support@endor.ai to tell us more.
