---
url: https://docs.endorlabs.com/scan-with-endorlabs/language-scanning/ruby/
title: Ruby | Endor Labs Docs
downloaded: 2025-10-23 23:27:41
---

Ruby | Endor Labs Docs



* Type to search...
* ---

[Print entire section](/scan-with-endorlabs/language-scanning/ruby/_print.html)



# Ruby

Learn how to implement Endor Labs in repositories with Ruby packages.

Ruby is a widely used open-source programming language. Endor Labs supports scanning and monitoring of Ruby projects.

Using Endor Labs, application security engineers and developers can:

* Scan their software for potential security issues and violations of organizational policy.
* Prioritize vulnerabilities in the context of their applications.
* Understand the relationships between software components in their applications.

## Software prerequisites

The following prerequisites must be fulfilled:

* All applications monitored by Endor Labs must be on Ruby versions 2.6 or higher.
* A Gemfile or a `*.gemspec` file must be present in your Ruby project.
* Make sure your repository includes one or more files with `.rb` extension.

## Build Ruby projects

You can choose to build your Ruby projects before running a scan. This will ensure that`gemfile.lock` is created.

Ensure your repository has Gemfile and run the following command making sure it builds the project successfully.

```
bundler install
```

If the project is not built, endorctl will build the project during the scan and generate `Gemfile.lock`. If the repository includes a `Gemfile.lock`, endorctl uses this file for dependency resolution and does not create it again.

### Configure private RubyGems package repositories

Endor Labs supports fetching and scanning dependencies from private RubyGems package registries. Endor Labs will fetch resources from authenticated endpoints and perform the scan, allowing you to view the resolved dependencies and findings. See [RubyGems package manager integrations](../../../integrations/package-manager/rubygems-private-package-manager/) for more information on configuring private registries.

## Run a scan

Perform a scan to get visibility into your software composition and resolve dependencies.

```
endorctl scan
```

You can perform the scan from within the root directory of the Git project repository, and save the local results to a *results.json* file. The results and related analysis information are available on the Endor Labs user interface.

```
endorctl scan -o json | tee /path/to/results.json
```

You can sign in to the Endor Labs user interface, click the **Projects** on the left sidebar, and find your project to review its results. Refer to [Endor Labs user interface](https://app.endorlabs.com) for more details.

## Understand the scan process

Endor Labs looks for `Gemfile`, `*.gemspec`, and `Gemfile.lock` files to find and monitor the dependency activity.

* A Gemfile is a configuration file used in Ruby projects to specify the required RubyGems (libraries or packages) for the project’s dependencies.
* A `*.gemspec` file is a RubyGems specification file used to define the metadata and dependencies for a RubyGem.
* The `Gemfile.lock` file is automatically generated by Bundler. Refer to [Bundler documentation](https://bundler.io/guides/getting_started.html) for more information about getting started.

If the `Gemfile.lock` is not present in your project, Endor Labs generates this file and stores it in a temp directory. The file is deleted after extracting dependency information.

Endor Labs’ dependency resolution mechanism assesses multiple factors, including compatibility, stability, and availability, to determine the most suitable version for usage. The resolved dependency version is used during the build or execution of your Ruby project. By utilizing the dependency graph, you can access significant information regarding the dependencies. This includes determining whether a dependency is direct or transitive, checking its reachability, verifying source availability, and more. The dependency graph provides a visual representation that allows you to examine the graphical details of these dependencies.

### Known limitations

* Call graphs are not supported for Ruby projects.
* If a dependency can not be resolved in the Gemfile, building that specific package may not be successful. This package may have been removed from the Gem package manager. Other packages in the workspace are scanned.

## Troubleshoot errors

* **Unresolved dependency errors**:
  The Gemfile is not buildable. Try running `bundler install` in the root project to debug this error.
* **Resolved dependency errors**:
  A version of a dependency does not exist or it cannot be found. It may have been removed from the repository.

## Feedback

Was this page helpful?

Yes
No

Thanks for the feedback. Write to us at support@endor.ai to tell us more.

Thanks for the feedback. Write to us at support@endor.ai to tell us more.
